# Specifying Semantic Interoperability between Heterogeneous Cloud Resources with the fclouds Formal Language

With  the  advent  of  cloud  computing, different  cloud  providers with heterogeneous services and Application Programming Interfaces (APIs) have emerged. Hence, building an interoperable multi-cloud system becomes a complex task.
Existing multi-cloud interoperability solutions remain insufficiently expressive and comprehensive.  Our idea is to design **fclouds framework** to achieve semantic interoperability in multi-clouds, i.e., to identify the common minimum concepts between cloud APIs and to reason over them. In this paper, we propose to take advantage of the Open Cloud Computing Interface (OCCI) standard and the Alloy formal language to define the **fclouds language**, which is a unified precise language for specifying heterogeneous cloud APIs. To do so, we formalize OCCI concepts and operations, then we identify and validate five properties that denote their characteristics. To demonstrate the effectiveness of our **fclouds language**, we present thirteen case studies where we formally specify  **OCCI Infrastructure**, **OCCI Platform**, **OCCI CRTP**, **OCCI SLA**, **OCCI Monitoring**, **Simulation**, **Cloud of Things (CoT)**, **Elasticity**, **Docker**, **Google Cloud Platform (GCP)**, **Model-Driven Management of Cloud Applications with OCCI (MoDMaCAO)**, **Open Mobile Cloud Robotics Interface (OMCRI)** and **VMware**. Thanks to the Alloy analyzer, we verify that these heterogeneous APIs uphold the properties of **fclouds** and also validate their own specific properties.
Then, thanks to formal transformation rules and equivalence properties, we draw a precise alignment between our case studies, which promotes semantic interoperability in a multi-cloud system.

